>> Male 1: If I want to build an open
source library composed of multiple
packages like Lib, Course,
Lib, Utils, libreact,
all inside of one monorepo,
using Lerna or nx,
what's the best way to structure it for
long term maintainability?
Should it just be each
feature in its own package or
is it better to keep everything in one
package with an internal structure?
>> Mike: Yeah, that's a great question.
There is a trap of trying to split
things apart too much too early.
And what I would say is look for,
I would rather have a fat
core package that I later
understand I need to factor
some things out than start in
a world where every single
feature is its own package and
then have to worry about.
All right now people are using these
things sort of very difficult to claw
that back, right?
Once people have installed these
things into their apps, you sort of,
I mean you can just stop
publishing packages.
But that loss of continuity of like
a particular piece of functionality
being available in a certain package,
it's much harder to correct the problem
where you fragmented too much and
need to consolidate than like, all right,
you've not fragmented enough and
so you factor something out
into its own package, but
then you can always re export it from the
original package and it still feels okay.
One exception, and
that would be if whatever you're building
is intended to be something
that involves plugins and
in that case maybe your
features are plugins.
That's where I would say, all right,
well invest some of your mental energy
in defining a good plugin interface and
then you will want to have some world
where maybe your internal features,
some of them are modeled as plugins and
then you can also let other people write
libraries that also act as plugins.
That would be the case
where maybe you end up with
a lot of packages earlier
rather than waiting for
a need to introduce more packages to
arise before factoring things out.
>> Male 2: Have you ever had to override
the NX cloud to store the task caches in
your company, whatever company,
cloud provider, cloud storage use,
whether it's like cloud storage or
S3 or anything like that.
>> Mike: Sorry, have I ever done that?
>> Male 2: Yeah.
Have you ever had to override instead of
using NX cloud, their cloud service,
storing the cache in your S3 bucket.
>> Mike: Or something like that,
not while using NX.
So I kind of these days do
two kinds of development.
I do open source stuff,
in which case I am happy to use NX and
I'm fine with everyone being
able to see the build artifacts.
They would be able to see them in
GitHub Action Logs anyway, and
then on the other side,
monorepos that aren't just JavaScript and
that's where we're using Bazel and
we have a similar concept of
being able to take advantage of
distributed build artifacts, but
it's not something we'd use NX for
and that would be like at Stripe.
Does that make sense?
And in that case, absolutely.
We don't want to be tossing our not yet
released build artifacts onto
another person's infrastructure.
I mean like Amazon, sure, but a cloud
provider is who we'd be trusting there.
Not that the NX team is not trustworthy,
but
I think many enterprises would
make a similar decision.
>> Male 2: Yeah, that's why I looked
into it because my company was like.
So I was curious if you've had to
use that any other corporate side.
>> Male 1: Not on the corporate side,
but yeah, sorry,
I can't really provide a better
path forward for you there.
>> Male 3: This isn't necessarily
related to monorepos, but
I was curious if you've
heard of Archetype before.
>> Mike: No, I have not.
No, it's similar to Zod.
>> Male 3: I'm basically trying to get
into some data validation stuff for
TypeScript since we don't really
do any of that right now.
I know Zod is the one you
covered on last one, but
I also looked into Archetype as well.
>> Mike: I mean Zod is used extensively
and I think like I haven't seen Archetype,
but when evaluating libraries like that,
I would look at, you know,
how likely is it that you can hire someone
and they already know how it works,
or how likely is it that
when you run into a problem,
you can go look on Stack Overflow or
let's be real, ask an LLM for
help and like, how many examples
do they have to pull from?
And don't forget this as a TypeScript or
JavaScript developer, there is an enormous
amount of TypeScript and
JavaScript code that LLMs have ingested.
But if you try to get an LLM to
help you with a more esoteric
programming language like Elixir or
something like that,
it's a lot less on target because it just
has a lot fewer examples to pull from.
And similarly with libraries like there
is, if you're using AI coding help,
there is an advantage to going with
an option when you're making choices.
But there's just a ton
of usage out there and
a ton of stuff in GitHub and
GitLab open source that
all helps Build,
I'd say an understanding, but
really a database of
autocomplete results that
will be more likely what
you want to implement.
A more helpful answer,
if that makes sense.
>> Male 3: Archetype seems cool because
it literally uses TypeScript syntax at
runtime.
>> Mike: Interesting.
>> Male 3: Can take TypeScript syntax and
it'll take that to runtime and
then do data validation.
You don't have to learn any new APIs,
which might make it an easier cell.
But also Zod is more proven, I guess.
>> Mike: Well, and in that case maybe what
I just said is less relevant because if
the way you express these
things is in typescript types,
then there is plenty of information
out there on that and it makes sense.
Like there are lots of libraries where
you can extract a JSON schema or
a protobuf or whatever you want
from a TypeScript type, and
it stands to reason you could use that
to compile a validation of some sort.
>> Male 2: I'm gonna piggyback off
of Pepe's question here in the chat.
Do you have any best practices for
building NX generators?
Or do you have any favorite ones that
you or your company have built and use?
>> Mike: Bluntly,
I use the off the shelf stuff.
Sorry.
I do have a best practice.
It's not a best practice.
I can offer my practice for
something like our dev script.
I would just let you know about this more,
don't overlook this as
a possibility thing.
Not that it's the answer to everything,
but a lot of people don't.
Seems obvious when you think about it, but
you can create a package that
NX sees as a package and
it has a Project JSON file.
You could just create a folder with
a project JSON file in it, and
it's kind of a fake package.
Like it has nothing to do with
software that's being imported into
other packages in your monorepo.
But that lets you.
It has the effect of letting you almost
like create commands that are of
the shape that you want to create.
Like if I wanted to create
something that was like
NX dev serve, well,
all I need to do is create.
Really?
That's following the pattern of NX UI
test.
Oops, sorry, I got it backwards.
NXTest UI, yes, terminal,
too small, gotcha.
So really what you're saying
is I want to create a target
that is called dev and
a project that is called serve.
And so this lets you, if you lean
into that, these are just two words.
And so, you can create
a combination of projects and
targets that let you make a very
semantically relevant command.
If you're just like, you're willing to
break this sort of implicit pattern,
but it doesn't have to stay that way of
like, well, the project JSON goes in my
models folder and there are absolutely no
other places I can put this project JSON.
Like, you can make NX aware of projects
that have nothing to do with your
typescript monorepos here it could just
be like another folder in your repo,
like another top level folder
that's not even packages.
Does that make sense?
This could become like noun, verb,
or whatever you want it to be,
because these are really just
task definitions, like targets.
And then this last word is a project.
A project is just a project JSON file.
It does not have to be mapped
one to one with a package JSON.
Usually NX commands are sometimes
not incredibly ergonomic.
And so I will reach for
that when I have something
that's really common
that needs to be run and
I want it to be stupid simple like
NX format manifests or NX lint css.
And you could do that if you
just set it up this way.
And you're not abusing the tool, you're
just cleverly naming the targets and
the projects while benefiting
from the target dependencies and
all of that, right?
Like, of course you could
do PNPM whatever you want.
Like, you could use NPM scripts,
but NX can do that too.
It just requires some more JSON.
>> Male 1: So
this one's tangentially related, but
you seem to be a big advocate for pnpm.
>> Mike: If I were to
go back to my company,
how do I sell PNPM to them to replace npm?
So the most obvious benefit
is really a developer
productivity thing where
every install is faster,
which makes CI faster,
local build startups are faster.
It means less compute
happening on your dev machine.
And so that means, I mean,
I'm sure Stripe is not the only company
where this happens, where developers
get issued at the time they feel
like these really powerful laptops and
then you get to a point a couple
years later where you're like,
I only have 16 gigs of RAM on this thing.
God, I've got two dozen
Chrome tabs open and
I've got an NPM install going
in the background and it.
It sucks.
So, yeah, I would say mostly the developer
productivity angle is
the main thing there.
Alternatively, if the company is
paying for storage of build artifacts,
just size on disk with PNPM is so
much smaller.
I mean, sorry, for
a sizable project it's so
much smaller because of just
the way the linking works and
the flat structure of that
cached set of dependencies.
Gotcha, interesting.
>> Male 1: Thank you.
>> Male 2: How much a lift do you
think it is switching at scale?
>> Mike: What dimension of scale?
>> Male 2: I don't know,
100 packages or something like that.
>> Mike: 100,
I mean that would be a dimension of
scale where I would say doesn't matter.
That should be fine.
You'd start out with pnpm.
You can point it at your package
lock JSON or your yarn lock file.
It'll generate the right PNPM lock file.
That doesn't drift any
of your dependencies.
That's fine.
Here's the other dimensions of scale.
What are developers used to like?
How you kind of have to
train them up a little bit.
You're gonna get people who
are a little curmudgeonly about like,
there was this one feature of
this thing that I really liked,
where there is a little bit of a trap
is if you're using some custom
tooling that relies on a different
layout of node modules.
That's the thing I would look at first.
If you have wacky scripts that kind of
depend on certain things being in the node
modules at the workspace level and
certain things at the package level,
those are the things
that are likely to break.
But the good news is that's
sort of a fail fast task there.
You try it out and
it'll be obvious if it breaks.
You just need to exercise
all those tools and
see if something produces
a wacky result of some sort.
But really the scale that I would
say is what to worry about.
It's not the 100 dependencies,
it's the 100 engineers and
kinda helping them understand.
All right,
here's how to think about these things.
Workspace colon is what you do.
It's more about any tool
requires this kind of thing.
Sort of the cultural rollout.
I mean, these things,
their implementation is not simple,
but they all read a package JSON,
they all have a lock file,
they have differing articulations
of how workspace works,
but that's a relatively small surface for
them to be entangled with your code base.
And so, it depends.
But granted you could have a bunch of
custom stuff that's doing a bunch of NPM
link everywhere and
that's not going to be friendly with pnpm.
So maybe the scale dimension that makes
this really hurt is how much custom
software has been built on top of
the conventional use of these commands
that more tightly integrates
you with one package manager.
So I hope you enjoyed learning
about TypeScript monorepos and
some of the great tools you can
use to make your builds fast,
to make developing on a big project
feel small in a good way, and
how even in a world where you have many
packages inside the same git repo,
you have great ways to trim
down your dependencies,
to enforce consistency standards across
your code base, and generally to make sure
that you get to reap a lot of the benefits
that the concept of a mon repo promises.